Let's add a log to the tick function of our FindEnemy service. Let's use the temporary category - LogTemp.
We will remove it immediately after this tutorial. Let's print the FindEnemy message and see
what happens when we kill the enemy. Open the blueprint AI of the character.
We will temporarily put him a small number of lives so that we can destroy the enemy with one shot.
Therefore, we set in the MaxHealth variable, for example, five health points. Open the log, clear
and run the game. The service works. FindEnemy log is displayed. Let's kill the character.
FindEnemy continues to display, we also see that there is a side effect - the weapon continues to shoot.
The Behavior tree continues to run and will only stop when the character's Destroy function is called.
Let's make the Behavior tree logic stop the moment the character dies.
Opening up the AI ​​controller. Let's see what happens inside the RunBehaviorTree function. Press f12. The functions are uncomplicated.
The blackboard is configured, then the brain component is cast to the behavior tree component, and if
this component does not exist, then it is created. Next, the created component is assigned to the brain component.
BrainComponent is the base class. BehaviorTreeComponent is inherited from it
and in the AI ​​controller we have a pointer to this component, that is, we can access it.
At the very bottom, the StartTree function is called, which essentially starts the asset behavior tree.
If we press F12 on the BehaviorTreeComponent, we will see that it really inherits from the brain component.
We go to the brain component and in the public section we see the functions through which we can control the behavior tree.
To stop the tree, we need to call the CleanUp function. Let's get down to it.
Let's go to the BaseCharacter class. We will stop the behavior tree when calling the OnDeath function.
First, we need to make it virtual so that we can override it in AICharacter.
You can override private virtual functions in C ++, but in this
case you will not be able to call the base OnDeath function. Therefore, we will transfer it to the protected section.
Go to AICharacter, override the OnDeath function.
We create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
And we immediately call the basic OnDeath function so
that the rest of the logic is not lost when our character dies.
We create a local variable. We call it STUController.
We assign this variable cast to the AI ​​controller of the pointer to the controller.
Next, we check the validity of the STUController
and also the brain component.
Let's include the BrainComponent.h header file.
Call the CleanUp function.
That is, when a character dies, we immediately stop the behavior tree.
Checking.
We start the game.
We kill the enemy and FindEnemy is no longer displayed in the console.